.TH SEETREE 1 "2026-04-29" "seetree 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
seetree \- live terminal tree viewer that lights up as Claude Code edits files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B seetree
[\fIoptions\fR]
[\fIDIR\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B seetree
shows a live, hyperlinked file tree that tints rows when Claude Code reads or
writes them, flashes a diff chip on edits, and tags shell calls. Tints fade
after a few seconds so recent activity stays visually distinct from older
edits. Without Claude Code activity, it works as a normal directory tree.
.PP
With no \fIDIR\fR argument, the current working directory is used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage and key bindings, then exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the version and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-once
Print the tree once and exit. No interactive UI.
.TP
.B \-\-detach
Open seetree in a new Ghostty window. macOS only.
.TP
.B \-\-side
Split the current Ghostty terminal to the right and run seetree in the new
pane. macOS only.
.TP
.B \-\-install-hook
Write the FileChanged hook script and print the JSON snippet to add to
\fI~/.claude/settings.json\fR. Used together with \fB\-\-apply\fR to edit
settings directly.
.TP
.B \-\-apply
With \fB\-\-install-hook\fR, edit \fI~/.claude/settings.json\fR in place
(saves a \fI.bak\fR backup first). Idempotent.
.TP
.BI \-\-theme= NAME
Color scheme. One of: \fBclaude\fR (default), \fBmono\fR, \fBgruvbox\fR,
\fBnord\fR, \fBdracula\fR, \fBtokyo-night\fR, \fBcatppuccin\fR,
\fBrose-pine\fR, \fBsolarized\fR.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list
List known Claude projects sorted by last activity, then exit.
.SH KEYS
In the live view:
.TP
.BR j ", " k ", " ↓ ", " ↑
Move selection.
.TP
.BR h ", " ← ", " l ", " →
Collapse / expand, or jump to parent.
.TP
.B space
Toggle collapse on the selected directory.
.TP
.B enter
Open the selected file or directory in your editor.
.TP
.BR g ", " G
Jump to top / bottom.
.TP
.BR pgup ", " pgdn
Page up / page down.
.TP
.B t
Cycle theme.
.TP
.B s
Open the settings popup.
.TP
.B /
Search. Esc to clear, backspace on empty exits.
.TP
.B ?
Help.
.TP
.BR q ", " Ctrl-C
Quit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SEETREE_THEME
Alias for \fB\-\-theme\fR.
.TP
.B SEETREE_EDITOR
\fBzed\fR (default), \fBcursor\fR, or \fBcode\fR.
.TP
.B SEETREE_OPEN_CMD
Full override for the open command. Path is appended.
.TP
.B SEETREE_FRESH_MS
Milliseconds the [Edit]/[Read] chip and diff stay visible after a touch.
Default 3000.
.TP
.B SEETREE_POLL_MS
Milliseconds between filesystem rescans. Default 2000, drops to 30000 when
the FileChanged hook is installed.
.TP
.B CLAUDE_CONFIG_DIR
Override the Claude Code config directory. Default \fI~/.claude\fR.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.claude/projects/*.jsonl
Claude Code session transcripts that seetree polls for file activity.
.TP
.I ~/.claude/hooks/seetree-refresh.sh
Hook script written by \fB\-\-install-hook\fR.
.TP
.I ~/.claude/settings.json
Claude Code settings, edited by \fB\-\-install-hook \-\-apply\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
Live view of the current directory:
.PP
.RS
.nf
seetree
.fi
.RE
.PP
Print the tree once and exit:
.PP
.RS
.nf
seetree --once ~/code/myproject
.fi
.RE
.PP
Wire the FileChanged hook for instant updates:
.PP
.RS
.nf
seetree --install-hook --apply
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tree (1),
.BR ls (1)
.PP
Claude Code:
.UR https://docs.claude.com/en/docs/claude-code
.UE
.SH AUTHOR
Ray (https://ramonclaudio.com)
.SH BUGS
Report at https://github.com/ramonclaudio/seetree/issues
